my father died in 1979 just six months
before I was born
my grandfather wrote a letter to him and
he actually talks about conch-shell
Welsh fu deep I will always remember
that day of July 1963 when you join the
Conshelf to expedition along the SHA
broomie reef in the Red Sea the Sun was
setting but I would not give you time to
relax I was too impatient to show you
our village under the sea hastily we
both donned our aqualungs and slowly
essentially we submerged into the
welcoming water as warm as our blood we
started for an unforgettable stroll with
slow strokes of our long stretched legs
and breathing deep lungfuls of air
[Music]
this is it this is it I can't believe
I'm here I just can't believe it
thinking back what it must have been
like 45 years ago and kind of
envisioning these oceanauts and silver
suits the first steps of humans in an
alien environment the five divers
oceanauts lived on the seafloor for a
month
today this is all that's left of the
underwater village the garage for their
submarine there's an entrance over here
I think this submarine would have come
up underneath and and slowly risen up
into the area in here this this
submarine garage
[Music]
I can't believe I'm here
no one really understood the
physiological or psychological effects
of living at pressure here they were at
twice atmospheric pressure every morning
a doctor carried out medical tests we
know that cuts and Nick's healed faster
because of the increased pressure and
the oxygen at depth that caused their
body to recover even had someone come
down to give them a haircut every once
in a while even though their beards and
their hair grew slower at depth
fresh food and water were brought down
everyday but being French they had wine
and champagne which was flat because
under pressure the bubbles didn't expand
they did some of the first remote video
capture of life underwater videoing
things that no one had ever seen before
they observed new patterns of behavior
and discovered several new species for
us to take another step towards
understanding the relationship we have
at the oceans by the end of the month
this bold experiment had proved that man
could live underwater although the space
race was to turn everyone's thoughts to
a different frontier I kept your hand in
mind to guide you from starfish house
where oceanauts were having dinner to
the onion-shaped diving saucer garage
Twilight was turning to sheer darkness
and our structures became eerie shadows
the fish were just moving pieces of the
sea I was still holding your hand when
we returned to the ladder I felt
strangely proud not of what we had
achieved but because our dreams were
always shared so intimately
I saw your shining face proud to have
something to give back to me and I
smiled because I knew that pursuing
rainbows in your plane you would always
seek you would
because I knew that pursuing rainbows in
your plane you would always seek after
the vanishing shapes of a better world